# Expand Section Answers

1. For developers, asynchronous nature of Javascript can be a pain because it is hard to control when certain blocks of code runs. Since we can have asynch and sync code blocks that may run outside the main thread, one has to keep in mind all the seperate processes that could be going on. This is different from most other programming languages where it is easier to define the order in which functions are run. The loose typing can become a pain quite easily as we can often forget to check the type of variable Javascript is interpretting and thus it is easy to get errors if we are, for example, expecting to be comparing a pair of integers but Javascript interprets the inputs as strings and tries to compare them instead. And finally, because JavaScript runs on a web platform, it is hard to control the system and anticipate all the different variables at play. The internet is constantly evolving and a good website/online service needs to keep up with the changes. Different browsers have different capabilities which makes implementing Javascript tougher. 
2. I think they made it loosely typed for ease of use. Similar to python where it automatically assigns types to variables, I think JavaScript is done with the same thought in mind. Espeically since JavaScript can be tinkered with by people with a wide range of ability and use cases, having loosely typed variables that are easier to work with can make it easier for people at different skill levels to communicate. I think they made asynchronous features because a lot of things on websites need to happen at real time, but there are other processes that need to be maintained regardless of the state of website. Having asynch functionality allows the application to maintain certain information or state regardless of the real time input.
3. Compiled languages are those that are transformed into machine code from human text which are then executed by the Computer's CPU. Interpreted languages, however, are executed directly by an interpreter without compilation. It goes line by line and executes the source code. Javascript is an interpreted language. This makes JavaScript very flexible - developers can write and execute code without the need for complilation. However, a main drawback is that the lack of compilation and time to check the code can lead to more errors and difficulty in detecting those errors. Since the code is executed line by line, errors may only come to light later on in the sequence. 
4. The benefits of mastering vanilla JS first is that we can learn the basics of JavaScript and understand what the frameworks themselves are doing. Without the basics, changing and adding on to established frameworks because much more difficult. The drawback of not learniing frameworks is that we are quite limited on the amount of versatility and advancements we can take in our app. Most of us are getting our first look into proper JavaScript development, so there's only so much we can do without the established frameworks within the time we have. 
5. JavaScript will be critical in giving our webpage the instructions and recieving information for the app we create. Whether it be animations, change in pages, user information, external API usage, all that has to go through some JavaScript script, so unless we understand the basics, it is going to be tough for our team to properly develop our program. 